Fisher’s Planet

Chapter 1

Mason watched his infant son play in the creek which irrigated the family farm. Soon the boy must be named, having lived his first year. Mason watched the boy lunge down, to catch a tiny minnow. He yanked it from the water. For a moment, he watched it wriggling in his four tiny hands. Then he looked to his father, as if unsure just what to do next.
Mason remained still. The boy will to decide for himself. The fish was gently lowered until submerged. It darted and vanished into the muddied water. From that moment on, Mason called the boy Fisher, and Fisher was content simply to watch the fish swim in the light of the never-setting sun.

For his 50th birthday, Mason bought his son the finest telescope he could afford. His wife didn’t think the boy was old enough to properly care for the instrument. Mason knew better. He set down the cumbersome device on the table, and covered it with a cloth. He let out a high-pitched whistle to summon Fisher who, as usual, was busy playing outside.
“I’ve bought a present for your birthday,” he said.
The boy ran to the window and looked up at the sky. Mason laughed.
“Still a bit early for my birthday, father. It’s not for at least another two meals, since I can still see Eater over the horizon,” said Fisher.
“Yes, and so says the clock sitting here on the table,” said Mason.
“I trust the planets and stars more than any old table clock. Anyone can reset table clock, but nobody can reset up the heavens,” said Fisher.  
“How right you are, my boy. Now get over here and see what I’ve got for you,” said Mason.
“Yes father,” said Fisher, as he scrambled back to the table.
“Since you love astronomy so much, I’ve bought you this telescope,” Mason said, and dramatically lifted the cloth to expose the shining, new device.
“A telescope! My very own! Is it catadioptric? It is! It’s catadioptric! Look at that aperture, it’s as wide as my whole face! Does it have a built in spectroscopes? Does it? Does it?” Fisher said between gasps of air and flailing arms.
Mason sat and waited for his son’s paroxysm to subside before answering. “For what I paid, it better have two,” he said. Then his son hugged him with all four arms, something the boy hadn’t done in a very long time.

    Mason sat in the school chancellor's office, waiting for the man to arrive. He had been called in to talk about his son, who was nearing graduation from student to apprentice. He began to suspect that Orpheus, the chancellor, was making him wait on purpose.
Mason wondered if Fisher was having more trouble in school. His son did pay more attention to the math and science classes. During other classes, the boy’s teacher once told Mason, he would stare out the window, draw fish in his notebook, or even catch a nap. Mason had thought the drawings which Fisher brought home were from art class. Another teacher complained, too, that she once discovered him doing his math homework, during art class!
Mason blamed these scholastic difficulties on the inadequacy of the school's teachers. Many of them were too young. The younger generation suffered from incurable timidity. They didn’t know how to discipline children. After all, they had grown up long after the last Alignment. They had seen no true winters.
Mason had seen well over a thousand winters. He’d been through two Alignments. Few men could say the same, for Alignment meant the end of the world. Come Alignment, death was the rule, survival the exception. Men did awful things to survive the world’s end. For this reason, survivors tended to kept the fact a secret.
Mason had survived. Many people knew that about him, though. That he’d survived twice, however, was a secret known only to himself and very many ghosts.
“Am I to wait here forever?” Mason said to himself. Just then the door opened and chancellor Orpheus slid into the room.
“Sorry to keep you waiting, Mason,” said the chancellor, who folded his slender arms in apology. Mason rose on all four legs and waited respectfully for the chancellor to take his seat. The chancellor strode past his chair to the fireplace, and pressed the button which lit the large pile of wood. Mason hid his disgust at the prodigal display.
“I’m afraid this winter will be a cold one,” said the chancellor as he gazed out the window.
“Indeed. Now then, what business have you with me, chancellor?”
    “Please call me Orpheus,” said the chancellor, as he reclined slowly into the large cushioned chair. “I wish to discuss your son’s graduation.”
“He is to become an apprentice?”
“Yes, of course! He’s gifted, as you know. Farm work would not suit him.”
Mason tried not to take offense. “I expect he will be placed at the observatory, under the astronomer Gavin.”
“What makes you so sure?”
“The boy obsesses over the motions of the suns and planets. He has idolized the great astronomer since his lecture at the school last summer.”
“Clearly the observatory is Fisher’s first choice, but how do you know Gavin will accept his appointment?”
“He said so, himself.”
“And I hear you brought the boy an astronomical instrument, as well.”
“I did.”
Orpheus rose to his fore legs. “Need I remind you, Mason, that apprenticeship placement is the responsibility of the chancellor, not the students, or the craftsmen. Certainly not the parents. Just imagine, if we let parents decide their children’s role in society. Who would do the hard labor? No rich sons and daughters. How then would society function? Would we return to the ancient ways of slavery and oppression?”
“No, chancellor, that would be --”
“Chancellor is my title. My name is Orpheus!”
“Orpheus, you misunderstand--”
“I understand perfectly! You forget your place! I work tirelessly to ensure the survival of our town. I don’t expect to be thanked. I don’t expect to be loved. I do at least expect to be obeyed, and my authority to be respected.”
Orpheus slammed all four fists down on the table. Mason slowly lowered his head. He examined the man’s tiny fists. The chancellor -- this man, Orpheus -- had the telltale hands of a scholar. Countless hours writing with the dexterous lowe set of hands left them calloused and sinewy. The over arms were atrophied, probably no good at throwing or lifting. They ended in withered clubs, hardly capable of grasping.
“I meant no disrespect,” said Mason. He continued to avoid eye contact, instead tracing with his eyes the ornate carvings in the table lacquered over with glassy amber. Small bubbles betrayed the desks great age. Probably older than it’s current owner, this poor man, Orpheus.
“Perhaps you need a lesson in manners,“ croaked Orpheus. He cleared his throat. “Your son would do well apprenticed to an architect. The cold of the observatory may not be suited to the son of a farmer.”
“You would punish the boy for his father’s tresspasses?” hissed Mason.
“He would surely miss the sunlight.” said the chancellor.
Mason stood up and thrust his elbow at the man’s wrinkled throat. He pulled the blow close enough to feel tickle of air on his arm as the weak man reflexively inhaled.
“Surely you would miss your head.”
The chancellor reclined and shook his head in an attempt to regain composure. “Please, Mason, save the performance for your martial arts students. Why don’t you come to the next town hall meeting, and go on record thanking me for my decision to place your son as apprentice to Gavin.”
Mason slowly relaxed into his seat. “If you think that would be best.”


 
    * revealing this is not earth, alignment = 3 suns
    
    * “the brightest sun stands still”
Chapter 2

    * Fisher has grown into a confident showman, like Tesla
    * show beginning of Fisher’s transformation to gaining confidence

    * he discovers his own exoplanet
* Fisher's given award for his discovery
* Fisher decides his planet might have life
* He decides to share this during the award ceremony

Chapter 3

* fisher gives presentation at award ceremony
* People vehemently argue against him, like Darwin

Chancellor Orpheus signals and large men stand and begin to make their way to the pulpit. Mason steps to the edge of the stage. "You think you're any match for these defenders of the faith? I should warn you, they're armed." says Orpheus.
"I should warn you, Orpheus, so too am I armed." says Mason.
"No you aren't, we checked for weapons at the door." says Orpheus.
"You can remove a hunter from his knife, but you can not remove a scholar from his knowledge." says Mason.
"The time for such nonsense has come to an end. Defenders, remove them both from the stage at once." says Orpheus.
"Orpheus, do you know why we don't have fighting razors like our close cousins?" asks Mason.
"But we do!" shouts someone from the crowd.
"Yes, we do. They're just vestigial." says Mason.
Mason’s chest rose as he drew in a long, slow breath. He raised his arms and let out a guttural, beastly roar. He grabbed each under-arm with the opposing over-arm. He began to twist the smaller pair of arms. Two loud cracking sounds ring out like gunshots.
Fisher watched in horror as his father slid his fingers into compound fractures on each under-arm and pulls out his minor ulna bones. The bloody daggers came out whole, still sheathed in white collagen. Mason shook the newborn weapons out of their living sheaths. They hit the ground with a disgusting smack.
The Defenders reached the stage and drew their iron knives. Mason recognized one of the thugs and looked him in the eyes.
"Come now, I know you. Doreen is your wife. What would she think of this? This isn't the way." said Mason.
The Defender on his other side lunged to disarm him. He parried the man's dagger, deflecting it with a slash of his ulna's cutting edge. The sound of bone on metal surprised everybody in the theater. It sounded much like the fighting of tiny subhumans, only louder.
It terrified these people, many of whom had only heard such noises from unseen, threatening monsters far up in the treetops. Doreen's husband had frustrated rage on his face, and slashed fiercely at Mason's face. Mason ducked and jabbed the overgrown youth in the torso with the blunt end of his weapon.
Then the other three were on him. He managed to parry two of their slashes, but a third caught him in the flesh of his limp under-arm. The pain hardly registered. Whatever the cost, must to stall these fanatics until the police came.
Mason kicked Doreen's husband and fell to the ground with him. He rolled out of the way as the other three tried to stomp him. He crouched on bent legs and cut at their legs. Startled by this, they backed off. He leaped forward to slash at the knife-arms of the two closest assailants. One hit connected, and the knife clattered loudly to the floor.
Chapter 4

* minority support him anonymously with fish symbol (irony vs. christian fish symbol)
* Fisher is persecuted to house arrest like Galileo
Chapter 5

* his father falls ill and dies
* He suffers a breakdown and turns briefly to mysticism (like newton and alchemy)
* his cousin offers to take care of him (romantic subtext)

Chapter 6

* alignment comes to end the world
* he's studying the heavens until the last minute, echo "The Last Man"
* he narrowly escapes, dragged by his cousin

Chapter 7

    * what happens during and after this alignment?
    * how long does fisher live?
    * species flies to next planet out, which is habitable and free of giant monsters
Chapter 8

* future generations build and launch fisher's spacecraft


The solar sail was outstretched again to embraced Fisher’s Star’s brilliant radiation. Once the craft had slowed enough, it fired ion rockets, powered by the energy breathed in from this mighty star. The probe approached the third planet, and entered a close orbit. It broadcast its message of peace from a distant, grateful people.
It continued dutifully to broadcast this message for many thousands of the planet’s languid years. It couldn’t have known that nobody was listening. Finally, fuel exhausted, it could no longer make the requisite minor adjustments to its orbit, which began to decay. The craft burnt up completely as it entered the alien atmosphere.
Some few inhabitants of this world did witness this faint, artificial shooting star. However, they could not appreciate its significance. After all, as early tetrapods, they were busy enough experimentally gulping their first tastes of air.

Notes

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gliese_667_Cc

http://nautil.us/blog/forget-earth_likewell-first-find-aliens-on-eyeball-planets


Arguments against Earth life:
    only one star, religious objections.
    star is too hot, 50% hotter.
    star is too bright, 70 times brighter.
    planet is too far from star, 8 times farther away.
    year is too long, 13 times longer.
    too cold, 90% K, water would become a solid!
    
Creatures:
    during alignment, every 42 earth years, winters are cold, nights are pitch black
    huge monsters emerge during alignment to feast and breed
    then go back into the depths

tidally locked!
20.3 light years
4.5 Earth Masses
Year = 28.155 Earth days
Insolation in the infrared
7 planet system
3 rocky planets in habitable zone
Hot 277.4 K (Earth = 254.3 K)
0.875 stellar flux of Earth
A/B orbit takes 42.15 Earth years
telescope lenses out of Ohmu
"ancients" are the few who survive between epochs
ancients assimilate to survive, like Jews
alignment is coldest time
water evaporates on hot side, snows on cold side
glacier melt brings fresh water back to hot side
hot side has huge bulge volcano, more massive than cold side glaciers
people have built observatories just a ways onto the cold side

mythology:
C sun god
A sun god
B sun god
Cb planet god is named Eater. It sometimes eclipses or “eats” the sun. It is the closest planet to their star, with a 7 Earth-day orbit. It’s speed makes it useful for tracking time. (can eater eclipse the whole sun?)
    
Music: orochimaru battle

Timeline:
0 - birth of Mason
200 - launch of planet finder satellite
250 - Mason survives his first Alignment
800 - rise of Orpheus
900 - Mason survives his second Alignment
1,000 - birth of Fisher 
1,050 - Fisher becomes an apprentice
1,100 - Fisher goes on voyage and discovers his planet
1,111 - Fisher gets an award and presents his findings, orpheus is overthrown
1,112 - Mason dies
1,120 - Mason marries and continues his work
1,450 - Fisher narrowly survives his first alignment
2,000 - Fisher leads expedition to another planet during his second alignment
2,200 - Fisher is busy designing mission to another star but dies
2,800 - People thrive on the new planet and finish his last work
30,000 - Probe arrives on earth
