Gods, All the Way Down
by James Weisner

Chapter 1

    “Come on, you can do it. Just a little closer.” Philip said aloud in the the empty laboratory. His eyes darted back and forth between the calorimeter activity light and the beam alignment graph. In the display, the clockwise and counterclockwise beams appeared right on top of each other. Then the activity light blipped. Just alight for one short pulse, and then dark again for an eyeblink.
    In that eyeblink, many protons dumped hundreds of TeV of energy into a tiny region of space, forming a microscopic black hole. Inside this wounded region of spacetime, a violent reaction occurred. The once-stable vacuum potential at this particular point in space was unfrozen for the first time in 13.75 billion years.

Newly awakened, it writhed and shook until it settled into a new configuration. This new, lower energy state set of a cascade of cosmic inflation, changing the crinkled up mess in the heart of the black hole into a nice, flat spacetime. Gravitational energy was borrowed from the cosmic ledger to produce an exponential expansion. Bruises left by quantum fluctuations seeded overly dense regions in this newborn fireworld.
As this ever-growing pocket space cooled, the laws of physics returned to normal. Taking after it’s parent’s predilections, matter won out over antimatter, by a recognizably small fraction. The some of the remaining hadrons fused into helium. Electrons found mates forming atoms, and relinquished their blockade on photons.
Atoms clumped to form dust. Dust into stars. Stars cooked metals. Metals formed rocky planets. Some rocky planets held onto thin layers of atmosphere and were covered with water from impacting ice balls. Organic chemistry favored some reactions over others.
After just ten billion years, the number of living words in this pocket universe surpassed the square of its age in years. Life on surprisingly many some of these planets had its fleeting moment of intelligence.

On one such ordinary planet, a rather extraordinary member of a rather extraordinary group of social animals constructed a telescope. It was no more or less lovingly constructed than any spyglass made by Galileo himself. It wasn’t even very different in design.
Looking through this telescope, the animal saw stars previously unseen. It found the sky’s brightest, the wandering star, and noticed the star had six little children, just like its own. 
Time passed. It watched them dance around the wandering star for half its life. Ever since it was an infant, the star had grown brighter and brighter. Now it was a feeble elder, and the wanderer, too became dimmer and dimmer as the years fell down like grains of sand.
In a moment of clarity, it realized this was due to the phase of the planet as seen from his own, the shadow of night covering more and more of the face turned towards him as it orbited much farther out from the sun than his own small planet.
It marveled at the great disparity in size of his eye and the wandering planet. It shivered at the vastness of time that the wanderer must have been out there, searching for whatever it was for which stars searched. It wondered if there was even any end to the depths in which the stars floated, or the time they’d floated there.
So wrapped was it in thought that the embolism escaped notice as it clogged a critical vesicle in the creature’s circulatory system. The growing pain, once noticed, was unmistakably the call to return to the soil. The soil; from which all things are born, and to which all must eventually return. It lost control of its many legs which began to dig a hasty grave.
It extended both eyestalks as high as possible to watch the stars twinkle one last time. The lids shut against the rising soil as it sank down onto seizing limbs, now starved for oxygen. Activity in its brain began to fade away.
He feared not death. His time had finally fallen. All things must fade away. Will the stars, too, fade away? To which soil do they return?
And the stars did fade away. They winking out one by one, until only the black holes remained. Hawking radiation ensured these black holes, too, would fade away, as all things must do. When each black hole vanished, so too did it’s own contents of countless galaxies. Galaxies which each had, at their heart, a black hole, and so on, without end.

Phillip saw the activity light glow brighter and brighter as the calorimeter registered the spray of Hawking radiation from the microscopic black hole. It evaporated slowly at first, than with higher and higher intensity, until it popped out of existence, leaving behind a burst of subatomic particles. Phillip let out a yell of excitement which echoed through the empty halls. 
As if in reply, the status light went out accompanied by an audible pop. The bank of fluorescent lights on the left side of the room went out. “That’s not good,” thought Phillip. A faint hiss he hadn’t noticed quickly became a loud roar. The status lights for one of the superconducting magnet went red. Then another. Then the rest.
    “One of the magnets must have quenched, and dumped enough energy into the flimsy collider to spring a coolant leak. What could have caused the magnet to quench? It must have been an unexpectedly energetic collision.”

* He realizes a relationship between black hole quantum state and radiation output.
* Quantum encryption to factor 16-bit number using micro black holes.
* Phillip accidentally triggers inflaton field creating a bubble universe.
* Philip is an experimentalist with an undergrad assistant.

* Phillip measuring bekenstein-hawking radiation, repeating a previous experiment by Ethan.


Chapter 2

	Amaia sat at the coffee table. She picked up her half-finsihed tea, and -- upon realizing, not for the first time, that it had gone cold -- she set it back down again. "Another battle lost to entropy," she thought to herself. "But while I still draw breath, the war is not lost." This proved sufficiently heroic for her to stand up and add some hot water. And another sugar, for good measure. "But it's not sugar. It was sugar. Then they replaced three hydroxy groups with chlorine." In her mind's eye she imagined the stick and ball model undergoing the three simultanious chemical substitutions. "The perfect sweetness monster to fool this fruit eater. But why is chlorine always represented by green? Chlorine gas is more greenish yellow. I guess sulfur is already represented by yellow."
	She could feel herself procrastonating. She looked down at the shaft of light on the table. Like a sundial it had been creeping across thickly laquered wood, inch by inch. It was just now touching the corner of her laptop. "Finally, beak time!" she said aloud.
	"Huh?" came the muffled reply from her husband's office down the hall.
	"Sorry, inside-words snuck out again. I'm headed out for a walk to get the old brain juices flowing."
	"Gross."
	She smiled, made a "hand heart" gesture, then hurried out of the room. Her watch picked up the gesture and the app she had to write herself -- because she wasn't going to pay $2.99 for such a simple app -- it sent a heart enmoji to Gabe, her husband. "Love you, too!" came the muffled reply from down the hall.

	"Out in the sunlight, at last. Into nature. Where I belong. Correction: where I receive the most pleasurable stimuli because it most closely resembles the habitat of my recent evolutionary ancestors. Monkey girl likes monkey world." She briefly stuck out her elbows in a regretably speciesist impression of other venerated members of the family of great apes, immidiately regretted it, and looked arount to be sure nobody was watching. Someone was watching. She briefly examined her feelings and they told her she did not care. They also did the monkey walk back at her, and she felt a little bit called out. Her feelings sometimes called her out like that. "Rude."
	"Now that I'm taking a break, maybe I can actually get some work done. Ironic, sure, but genuinly a thing in the life of a theoretician." She came upon an old wooden post with trail names carved into its sides. The yellow paint meant to make the letters visible had most flaked off. But she knew these trails like the back of her hand. "When you come to a fork in the road, take it," she thought, and tied to pick a trail random. But the cosmos, having laws that are deterministic, did not allow her to freely choose a path.
	The path she chose is no less a logical consequence of the universal wave function than the sum of two integers is a consequence of their respective numerical values. Free will, consciousness, and the forward flow of time are illusions on the walls of Plato's cave. "Stop that. I have real things to think about."
	The trail bent steeply up a significant hill, and she began to breathe more heavily. Her feet kept a constant and punishing rhythm. Slight burning in her calves when they extended and in her quads as they lifted her up the hill. As she sank into the rhythm and the excertion, she was finally as awash in peace as she was in sunlight.
	"There's something strange in the cosmic gravitational wave background, I'm going to get to the bottom of it."

	Hours later Amaia noticed she was at her front door. She put her hand on the door knob. But the knob didn't turn. She wasn't done thinking yet. She felt so close. Like some nasty little incorrect assumption was a mouse and she was a cat. It moved there, just there in the corner of here vision. If she stood very still she might see it move -- and then pounce. Then she caught a whiff of cooking from inside. "Is it dinner time already?" she said aloud as she opened the door.
	"Ten minutes. Hope you're hungry," says Gabe. 
	She looked at her watch. Nine miles. From this she concluded, "Yes, famished."
	"Did you unlock the secrets of the cosmos?"
	"Almost."
	"Beef noodle. With 'happy cow' from Al and Debbie."
	Amaia leaned over the bubbling pot and inhaled deeply. "It was right here all along."
	"The secret of the cosmos?"
	"Yep. This beef noodle. Right here. The whole Big Bang was just the pretext for it."
	"Once it's eaten, is that it? Curtain call on existence?"
	"No. See the rotini? They have a conformal factor that approaches zero at timelike infinity so the attached future boundary is a regular hypersurface..."
	Amaia stopped speaking, but her lips kept moving, slowly, soundlessly mouthing words. Her eyes were focussed on someplace distant, someplace visible -- at this moment -- only to her. She got goose bumps. "A vestigial reaction meant to raise up body hairs to appear bigger and scare off those other animals -- over there in the shadows -- that really shouldn't be doing whatever it is that they're doing."

* Amaia is a theoretical cosmologist playing with new beyond-Planck data.
* Amaia discovers message in CMBR.


Chapter 3

... another wound in spacetime writhed and shook, expanded and cooled, filled with atoms, dust, stars, planets, and finally, life. And only a billion or so years later, Nacre was born.
	Well, actually he clawed his way out of an egg sack stuck to the underside of a rock in the tiny pile his parents called a nest. Small at birth, he was destined for bigger things. Or so he had always believed. His whole life he had faith that the crab king Himself had whispered this destiny to him at birth. He grew enormous in size, and influence. He established a great school, and verily they did travel the ocean bottom in search of untouched whale falls and pristine hydrothermal vents. By the grance of the crab king, he led his people to riches exceeding in abundance.
	And it came to pass that one day he did become old and frail. Soon, his second in command would set upon him and kill him and devour all of his remains. This is the way of his people, as it has always been since the tale of the crab king was first delivered to crabkind in divine revalation to the profits many hundreds of generations ago. And so it came to pass that, in this final hour when he felt the end coming, he did cry out with the last of his strength.
	He did beseeched unto the crab king that, before he met his end, He finally reveal Himself. "Have I not been a loyal servant my entire life? My offspring numbered in the millions. My people have prospered. I have kept the commandments. I have eaten the weak. I have fought back the strong. I have secured mana in quantities unseen since the time of the profits.
	"You appeared to Saul. You dismembered Jacob. You fertilized the Adam's first clutch. Why are my signs so intangible? Am I not deserving of more than a mere whisper? You created everything! The sky of ice above. The warmth below. You raised up the hydrothermal vents. You send down whales from your icy throne. But for me, your greatest servant in living memory, only a whisper. Why?! Am I not worthy of your glory? What more must I do?"
	From behind him, then, came a rapping of legs. He recognized the voice of his first in command who said, "You must die, Nacre. Only then will you be given the greatest gift of all. Union with all things, union with the creator of all things. Only in death will you see the crab king face to face. He created all the things that are good, yes. But he also created parasites, sickness, and even death."
	"I do not beleive such blasphemy," said Nacre. "The creator is good. There must be some reason, some imperfection of my spirit, that kept the creator hidden from me. Why else would He hide Himself my whole life? Never once giving reasurance when I needed it the most? Never once offering me guidance when I needed to know the way? There must be some reason!"
	"Nacre, my poor old friend. You'll just have to ask him yourself."

 * Meanwhile, in the shadows, phillip runs another test.
 * Phillip figures out a way to see into bubble universes.



Chapter 4

Amaia puts the message on the Internet to get help decoding it.
He doesn’t tell them where it came from.
The question is ramp up from math to basic physics.
It asks for the prime factors of a large number.



Chapter 5

Phillip hears about the message and meets Amaia.



Chapter 6

They create a universe to solve their own god’s question.
They get an answer back.

“Do you think our descendants will populate the whole galaxy and decide to spend the enormous resources it would take to choreograph the ballet of millions of black holes just to and reply to our universal experimenter?”

“Maybe not your descendants, or mine, or even any from Earth, but some civilization in the galaxy probably will. You’ve seen the experimental results. It happens all the time.”



Notes

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Micro_black_hole

A mini-black hole would also have an entropy of only 4π nats, the minimum possible value.

4π / ln(2) = 18.1294405673 bits of information.

http://arxiv.org/abs/0811.1926

http://www.cnn.com/2014/03/17/tech/innovation/big-bang-gravitational-waves/

